Counter descriptor: pad (#29820)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/@counter-style/pad/index.md

### Values

The descriptor takes two space separated values: the pad length as an `<integer>` and the padding `<symbol>`.

- {{cssxref("integer")}}

  - : The `<integer>` specifies a minimum length that all counter representations must reach. The value must be non-negative.

> - {{cssxref("symbol")}}

Reviewer: Is there going to be a new page for this data type?

Author: The PR landed. Changed the value to where it is defined.

Reviewer: Cool, thanks!

> - {{cssxref("symbol")}}

Author: ```suggestion
- [`<symbol>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@counter-style/symbols#symbol)
```

  - : If the minimum length defined by the `<integer>` is not reached, the representation will be padded with the specified `<symbol>`.

## Description

> The `pad` descriptor is used when you need the marker representations to be of a minimum length. If a marker representation is smaller than the specified pad length, then the marker will be padded with the specified pad symbol. Marker representations longer than the pad length are constructed as normal.
> 
> Pad descriptor takes the minimum marker length as an integer and a symbol to be used for padding as the second parameter. A common usage of the pad descriptor is when you need your list to start numbering from `01` and go through `02`, `03`, `04`, and so on, instead of just 1, 2, 3, 4. Using the descriptor `pad: 2 "0"` tells the browser to "make the counter at least two character long. If there aren't two characters, pad the counter with "0" until the minimum 2-character length is reached. For markers that are 2 or more character long, construct the marker normally, without padding."

Reviewer: - What is meant by "constructed as normal"?
- With the `&&` in the syntax, `<symbol>` does not always have to be the second parameter?
```suggestion
Use the `pad` descriptor when you need the marker representations to be of a minimum length. If a marker representation is shorter than the specified pad length, then the marker representation will be padded with the specified padding symbol. Marker representations longer than the pad length are displayed without any additional padding.

The `pad` descriptor takes an `<integer>` for the minimum marker length and a `<symbol>` for the padding. A common use case of the `pad` descriptor is when you need a list to start numbering from `01` and go through `02`, `03`, `04`, and so on, instead of just `1`, `2`, `3`, and `4`. By specifying the `pad` descriptor as `pad: 2 "0"` in this case, the browser ensures to make the counter at least two characters long and adds a padding with `0` to reach the minimum two-character length where needed. Counters that are already two or more characters long in this example will be displayed normally, without padding.
```

### Padding a counter

> This example extends the `decimal` {{cssxref("@counter-style/system","system")}}, to create a counter that is at least three characters long, padding shorter numbers with `0` until that minimum length is reached. A {{cssxref("@counter-style/suffix", "suffix")}} was added to make the output more legible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example extends the `decimal` {{cssxref("@counter-style/system","system")}} to create a counter that is at least three characters long, padding shorter counters with `0` to reach that minimum length. A {{cssxref("@counter-style/suffix", "suffix")}} descriptor has been added to make the output more legible.
```

#### HTML

```html
<ul>
  <li>One</li>
  <li>Two</li>
  <li>Three</li>
  <li value="40">Forty</li>
  <li>Forty-one</li>
  <li value="200">Two hundred</li>
  <li value="3000">Three thousand</li>

>   <li>etc.</li>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <li>and so on</li>
```

</ul>
```

#### CSS

```css
@counter-style pad-example {
  system: extends decimal;
  suffix: ": ";

>   pad: 3 "0";

Reviewer: How about we demo that the order does not matter
```suggestion
  pad: "0" 3;
```

Author: prefer to do that in text, rather than via example. Will add that.

## See also

> - Other {{cssxref("@counter-style")}} descriptors, including, {{cssxref("@counter-style/system","system")}}, {{cssxref("@counter-style/symbols", "symbols")}}, {{cssxref("@counter-style/additive-symbols", "additive-symbols")}}, {{cssxref("@counter-style/negative", "negative")}}, {{cssxref("@counter-style/prefix", "prefix")}}, {{cssxref("@counter-style/suffix", "suffix")}}, {{cssxref("@counter-style/range", "range")}}, {{cssxref("@counter-style/speak-as", "speak-as")}}, and {{cssxref("@counter-style/fallback", "fallback")}}
> - {{Cssxref("list-style")}}, {{Cssxref("list-style-image")}}, {{Cssxref("list-style-position")}}
> - {{cssxref("symbols", "symbols()")}}, the functional notation creating anonymous counter styles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- {{cssxref("@counter-style")}} descriptors: {{cssxref("@counter-style/system","system")}}, {{cssxref("@counter-style/symbols", "symbols")}}, {{cssxref("@counter-style/additive-symbols", "additive-symbols")}}, {{cssxref("@counter-style/negative", "negative")}}, {{cssxref("@counter-style/prefix", "prefix")}}, {{cssxref("@counter-style/suffix", "suffix")}}, {{cssxref("@counter-style/range", "range")}}, {{cssxref("@counter-style/speak-as", "speak-as")}}, {{cssxref("@counter-style/fallback", "fallback")}}
- List style properties: {{Cssxref("list-style")}}, {{Cssxref("list-style-image")}}, {{Cssxref("list-style-position")}}
- {{cssxref("symbols", "symbols()")}} function to create anonymous counter styles
- [CSS counter styles](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_counter_styles) module
```
